Template deduction is when the compiler determines
the type for a template automatically without us having to specify it.
So in this example,
we have a max function,
and we tell the compiler that we're going to pass in a type int,
type double, and type char.
But what we could do is simply delete those types and
the compiler would deduce from the arguments that
in this case we're calling max with type int,
in this case we're calling max with type double,
and in this case we're calling max with type character.
When we compile and run that code, it all works.
Now you might wonder if you can do the same thing with standard vector.
Normally, we would call standard vector int,
we might call named the vector variable v,
and we would initialize it to say, 1, 2, 3,
and then we might want to assert that v.size is equal to three.
So we're telling the compiler that we want to create a vector of
type int and we can compile that and run it and everything works great.
So can we eliminate the int
and have the compiler deduce that we want a vector of integers?
When we compile this code,
it errors out and says we're missing template arguments.
But in fact, what we can do is we can compile it
again and we can set the standard to C++17,
the most recent C++ standard.
Now when we compile the code,
in fact it works and the compiler does deduce
the type from the initialization list and the code compiles and runs,
and this is an example of template deduction.